README.md, before:

[![Netlify Status][Netlify-badge]][Netlify-url] 
[![discord-badge]][discord-url]
# https://ustaxes.org/

# What is UsTaxes?
UsTaxes is an open source tax filing application that can be used to file the Federal 1040 form. It is different from paid tax preparation software in that it protects user privacy and is provided for free. It is available in both [web](https://ustaxes.org/) and [desktop](#desktop-application) formats

# Supported Income data
Most income information from the following forms are supported:
* W2
* 1099-INT
* 1099-DIV
* 1099-B

So far this project can attach the following schedules to form 1040:
* Schedule B
* Schedule D

# Supported states
Users who only have wage income and live in the below states should be able to file taxes using this site, since they do not have state level income tax.
- Alaska
- Tennessee
- Wyoming
- Florida
- New Hampshire
- South Dakota
- Texas
- Washington
- Nevada

⚠️ With that being said, **please don't use this software to file your taxes for the 2020 / 2021 tax season.** This software is a work in progress.

# User Data
The site is client side only. Data is persisted to the site's localstorage so no personal information ever leaves the user's computer. For those who want extra security, the codebase can also be built as a [desktop application](#desktop-application).

# Contributing
Thank you for taking the time to contribute, let's make tax filing free for everyone! 🎉 
- If you wish to make a code contribution please check out current issues and comment `@thegrims` on the issue that you want to work on so that multiple contributors don't end up working on the same issue. 

- If you have an idea for an improvement or a bugfix, feel free to file an issue to be reviewed.

# Running
This application can be either run as a web application or a standalone desktop application. 

### Web application
To run, `npm start` or `yarn start`.

### Desktop application
To run, `npm run desktop` or `yarn run desktop`. This requires [rust and cargo][Cargo-docs] to be available on PATH. To avoid a browser window being spawned in addition to the desktop window, just set the BROWSER environment variable as in: `BROWSER=none npm run desktop` or `BROWSER=none yarn desktop`.

To release, run `npm run desktop-release` or `yarn desktop-release`. This will produce executables for your current environment.

[Netlify-badge]: https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/41efe456-a85d-4fed-9fcf-55fe4d5aa7fa/deploy-status
[Netlify-url]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/peaceful-joliot-d51349/deploys
[Cargo-docs]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html
[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/812156892343828500?logo=Discord
[discord-url]: https://discord.gg/dAaz472mPz

Commit message:

Add contributor oriented documentation
Also fixes up readme language. I removed the caution note about not using
this software for the 20/21 tax season. The reason is just that some
people file extensions and then don't complete their returns until
October. I just don't think there's much reason to be concerned
that someone will trust us to the point of just blindly printing out
their return and mailing it in.

Additionally, we'll probably never be 100% confident in our output,
even after years of work we can still make mistakes that would be
created or fixed by other people's contributions.

README.md, after:

[![Netlify Status][Netlify-badge]][Netlify-url] 
[![discord-badge]][discord-url]
# https://ustaxes.org/

# What is UsTaxes?
UsTaxes is an open source tax filing application that can be used to file the Federal 1040 form. It is different from paid tax preparation software in that it protects user privacy and is provided for free. It is available in both [web](https://ustaxes.org/) and [desktop](#desktop-application) formats

# Supported Income data
Most income information from the following forms are supported:
* W2
* 1099-INT
* 1099-DIV
* 1099-B

So far this project can attach the following schedules to form 1040:
* Schedule B
* Schedule D

# Supported states
Users who only have wage income and live in the below states should be able to file taxes using this site, since they do not have state level income tax.
- Alaska
- Tennessee
- Wyoming
- Florida
- New Hampshire
- South Dakota
- Texas
- Washington
- Nevada

# Note on using this project
* This project is built by a growing community. If you notice an error in the outputted PDF, or any other error, please submit an issue.

# User Data
The site is client side only. Data is persisted to the site's localstorage so no personal information ever leaves the user's computer. For those who want extra security, the codebase can also be built as a [desktop application](#desktop-application).

# Contributing
Thank you for taking the time to contribute, let's make tax filing free for everyone! 🎉 
- If you wish to make a code contribution please check out current issues and leave a comment so that multiple contributors don't end up working on the same issue.

- If you have an idea for an improvement or a bugfix, feel free to file an issue to be reviewed.

# Running
This application can be either run as a web application or a standalone desktop application. 

### Web application4
To run, `npm start` or `yarn start`.

### Desktop application
This application runs on Tauri, which is undergoing rapid upgrades and development at this time. Running this as a standalone desktop application is currently [blocked by an issue with Tauri](//github.com/tauri-apps/tauri/)

To run, `npm run desktop` or `yarn run desktop`. This requires [rust and cargo][Cargo-docs] to be available on PATH. To avoid a browser window being spawned in addition to the desktop window, just set the BROWSER environment variable as in: `BROWSER=none npm run desktop` or `BROWSER=none yarn desktop`.

To release, run `npm run desktop-release` or `yarn desktop-release`. This will produce executables for your current environment.

[Netlify-badge]: https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/41efe456-a85d-4fed-9fcf-55fe4d5aa7fa/deploy-status
[Netlify-url]: https://app.netlify.com/sites/peaceful-joliot-d51349/deploys
[Cargo-docs]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html
[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/812156892343828500?logo=Discord
[discord-url]: https://discord.gg/dAaz472mPz
